and they need some help. And I said, well, what do
you want me to do? He said, I would like for you to
tutor them in English, accounting, and algebra.
And I said, I don't know if I can do that because, you
know, we've got to I just got married and we've got a
heavy spring load coming up here in track. And he
said, we will pay you $1 per student per hour. I
said, dog, you've got a deal. So I had four or five
students in each subject. And I went downtown in
Bryan and rented an old Victor Comptometer that
had the arm on it you would pull to use as an
addition, subtraction, and multiplying
function for accounting. And I would teach those
guys the double entry method of accounting that
Homer Adams, class of 45, taught us. So you're a
freshman helping freshmen. That's right. And Dog
figured it'd be better that way, you know, I was one
of them. They were one of us. And they were having to
repeat first semester accounting, algebra, and
English. So by the end of the course, they all
passed. I think the lowest grade any of them made
was a C. Yeah, pretty good. So it worked. Where did
you do this physically? In H-Ramp. of Hart Hall
there was a lounge on the first floor and couches
and chairs and a table or two and a coke machine and
we'd get over in the corner at this chair and we'd
sit there and I would drum into them about rhetoric
composition and punctuation and cut off your
dangling participles and use a semicolon instead
of a colon and You know, use an apostrophe where it
belongs. Make sure you don't put the word only in
the wrong position as a modifier. Those kinds of
things that we all learned in high school, but some
of the guys didn't have the advantage
from the smaller schools, didn't have the
advantage of good instruction, or they just
disregarded punctuation and spelling
altogether. Did you do that later semesters or
just that one time? Just that one time,
well, I take that back. In my sophomore year, dog
came to me again and asked me to tutor a couple of
guys in accounting, which I was very happy to do
under the same arrangement. I sure could use the
money. Let's see, we mentioned also a while ago,
Now, you didn't have to worry about having a date
because you had a wife pretty quickly. Oh, yeah.
But how did the other guys get dates, and how did
they make links with the Tessie girls and so forth?
Well, some of the guys got dates from downtown
Bryan, but they were sort of few and far between
because, after all, you've got 5,000 bachelors
and 1,000 married guys out here on the campus.
Those 5,000 bachelors, if they're hometown
sweethearts, you're not coming up here to see them
on the weekend. They're going to go down to Bryan
and see what's available down there. And that
ratio gets pretty thin and out of kilter. The
Tessies would come down. And a lot of the Aggies had
girlfriends at TSCW. And they would come down on
the train. But one of the things that you could
count on at every home football game and
particularly at Sabisa Hall, I couldn't speak for
Duncan Hall over on the other side of the campus,
but at Sabisa Hall where all the athletes ate,
about noon on football Saturdays, two or three
buses would pull up from TSCW, the driver would
open those doors, and those girls would come
fogging off of that bus, screaming and giggling
and laughing at the top of their lungs, and they
would see these freshmen and sophomores and
juniors walking around, leaving Savisa on their
way back to their dorms to get ready for the march
in. And you talk about a jailbreak. The guys would
look over their shoulders and see these girls
getting off the bus, and to be charitable, I'm sure
they were nice girls. But I wouldn't have cared to
date any of them. But they sure could run fast. And
they would capture dates, literally capture
them. And the guys would take them to the ball game,
and they'd have dates that night, and we'd have a
dance later on. And a good time was had by all, I
suppose.
Some of the big-time groups that came here to
perform, who were some of those people? Big
orchestras. We had Racing with the Moon, Vaughn
Monroe. We had Les Brown and his band of renown with
Bob Hope and his group of young Hollywood
starlets. They performed in Kyle Field. Oh,
gee. The Dorseys? No, we didn't have any of the
Dorseys while we were here. It just escapes me
right now. But we did have some big name bands.
Let's see. OK, now that's all the notes that I made.
Do you have any other topics you can think of that we
should have?
No. I told you about Bones turning off the lights in
Kyle Field. Oh, an aside about Bones. Bones was the
class of 25 here at Texas A&M. He was also a
well-renowned tackle in the Southwest
Conference. My father went to a small
agricultural It wasn't a college. It was a school
in Russellville, Arkansas. It was called
Arkansas Polytechnic Institute. What it was
really was just a continuation of a more advanced
senior high school when he first joined there from
Hendricks College in Conway. He went to Hendricks
his first year and then transferred to Arkansas
Tech when his folks moved from Danville, Arkansas
and Yale County to Polk County, Russellville. My
dad was an all-state halfback and the state 102-20
champion and also all-Arkansas intercollegiate
in baseball. as was the habit of small schools in
those days, they would get a Pullman car and they
would travel around the United States playing
bigger teams, offering themselves up to the
slaughter.
But Arkansas Tech was a little different. They had
some guys that had been playing football there
four, five, and six years. which was illegal in
those days because there were no rules that
applied to them. And they put together a hell of an
aggregation of athletes. And they went around
playing bigger schools until these schools
finally wouldn't play them because they were
afraid of losing on their home ground. Anyhow,
they came on a swing down through Texas. They
played Austin College. They played Russ College.
They played Trinity College. And they played
Texas A&M here at Kyle Field. My dad talked about
the trip, especially here at Kyle Field. It was in
September. It was hot still and of course the train
had no air conditioning in those days and they
would sleep with the Pullman windows open.
Mosquitoes were terrible. The coach would stay up
all night burning rags to keep the mosquitoes away
so the boys could sleep. And my dad said that they
had heard tales, fables, about the terrific
linemen and hard-hitting backs that Texas A&M
had. One lineman in particular was Bones Irvins.
He got his name Bones because he broke so many bones
when he tackled. And another was Taro Kishi from
Orange, Texas. And Taro was a bone-crunching
halfback, although it turned out that Taro
weighed about 150 pounds, which is about what my
dad weighed. Anyhow, they lined up and played
against Texas A&M out here. They lost 42 to
nothing, but they gave a pretty good account of
themselves. And he said he got hit by a bone and said
that was the hardest he'd ever been tackled in his
life. And that year, later on that same year, this
was 1924, Arkansas
Tech became the first school west of the
Mississippi to play West Point. They took a train,
special train, from the state of Arkansas up there
and then played and lost. He said that was his most
memorable experience. And he and Bones talked
about that in later years when they got
reacquainted when Bones was the AD. Did, when you
were a student, what did you hear about the 12th man
origin?
Did you hear, did Colonel Andy ever talk about it?
Did anybody ever talk about the origin of the 12th
man up in the, that game in Dallas? No, Colonel Andy
never did. The football coaches would, and of
course the Yale leaders. And it was in the cadence.
Okay. And it was in the Aggieland, which up until my
freshman year had been called the Longhorn. Oh, do
you have any idea how that change came about? Who
proposed it? How, why?
It occurred between
48 and 49 because the 48-year book was called The
Longhorn. Oh, so you got here in the... I got here in
the fall of 48. Had it already been decided? Yes, it
had. It was going to be Aggieland because the
student senate and I guess the I don't know, maybe
the football players, but certainly the student
senate and a lot of other students on campus said,
this is crazy, calling our yearbook the Longhorn.
See, and I have assumed that the origin of that name
for this institution's yearbook predated the
athletic nomenclature. I'll bet that book goes
back before there were mascot names of Longhorns.
Because I think it goes back to the late 1880s, I
think. But that's just my guess. I wouldn't be at
all surprised. I don't know when the Longhorns
started calling themselves the Longhorns. I
don't either. Let's see. All right. Then we'll go
back to some other things that I had written down.
Your senior ring, you got that in the end of your
junior year. How much did it cost? Where'd you get
the money? Well, I earned the money by...
Building a sewage system out near Easterwood
Airport.
I don't know what it was called then, but you would
call it environmental services or something like
that today. Sanitation engineering.
Between my fall and spring semesters, since I was
exempt from finals, I would take whatever job I
could get. Well, the engineering extension
service or whatever branch of that, they were
experimenting with different types of sewage
disposal. And they had a sludge pit out there where
the big arm would go around the sludge pit and the
effluent would drain off through a pipe and they
wanted me to construct a flume and fill that flume
up with gravel and have it go through a series of
twists and turns to see so that they could measure
the oxygen input at the beginning where it entered
this flume. And I'd have to grade it myself. I had to
do all the work myself. I had to get it done in two
weeks time. And the thing was about 50 feet
linearly, but with all the twists and turns in it,
probably a hundred feet. And then they would
measure the oxygen content at the end of the run to
see whether or not that type of a system would work.
Whether it did or not, I don't know. I just built the
thing. I didn't use it.
senior ring from that, and I have a receipt here.
The ring cost $29.84. Tax
included because that was pre-sales tax. How did
you feel when you put it on? I was on top of the world,
and my father-in-law at the same time gave me the
money to buy My senior boots. And I bought a used
pair of senior boots. They were in good condition.
And I had the calves adjusted to fit my legs. They
did that at Hollick's Boot Shop. By what did they
cost? I paid $60 for a two-year-old set of boots.
Including the spurs. And did you keep those boots
or did you sell them? I've still got them. You've
still got them. I've got them in a case out in the
garage. With your ring, have you got any good ring
stories? Did you ever lose it? I lost it for about
two weeks.
It was about five or six years ago. It was a cold day.
in Travis County and uh I'd been wearing tight
fitting kid gloves and I came in the house and I was
taking off my coat and I took off my gloves and
because my hands were so cold my fingers had shrunk
and the ring slipped off of my finger but I didn't
realize it and uh Later on that night, I realized
that my ring was missing. And I was really torn up
about it because I prized that ring above
everything. Plus, my wife had, after I gave her a
bigger diamond, she had given me the diamond out of
her engagement ring to put in it. Oh, my. And, oh, I
fretted and fretted over that. And about four or
five months later, I had dropped a piece of the
vacuum cleaner in the hall closet where we kept our
coats, and the piece of the vacuum cleaner rolled
back behind the door jamb. And I was reaching back
there for that piece of the vacuum cleaner, and
doggone, that ring wasn't there along with it.
Have you been to some special place ever where
somebody far, far away recognized Oh, all over the
world. Examples? Oh, examples. Over in Germany, a
particular job that I had put me in contact with a
lot of Army officers. And of course, I guess there
were probably more Aggies in the Army than there
were in the Air Force or the Navy.
Aggies are always on the lookout for somebody
else. with a ring, and we would spot that ring, and
that's just the way it worked out. Other places
where some non-Aggie spotted it? No, non-Aggie
didn't know what it was. They would admire the
rings, oh gee, that's a beautiful ring, where's it
from? And I'd explain it to them. Why are Aggie
rings so special?
That's hard to say. I have noted that Aggie
seniors, more Aggie seniors wear Aggie rings than
other seniors of other institutions wear their
senior rings. I don't know whether it's because
of pride or just what it is. I'd have to attribute it
to a large extent to pride. and what the ring meant
to them personally and what you had to do to get it.
Now when you put on those senior boots and went to
final review as a junior, how did you feel? On top of
the world.
On top of the world. Okay, then as a senior,
describe final review your senior year as you
recall it. Who was here and Let's
see, President Eisenhower was here for final
review in 1950. Oh, describe that as far as you
remember it. He was the president of Columbia
University. He was not President Eisenhower at
that time. And he came here to be the reviewing
officer.
He was up on the reviewing stand. The MSC was under
construction at that time and he had his entourage
of horse holders and of course all of the system
officials and school officials were up there. We
common peons didn't get to didn't get to greeting
very much, but he made an address to the entire
student body later on after he spoke at the final
review. Then he met with us all in Kyle Field. And
that was quite an event. Did he say any special
things about Aggies? He paid very great homage to
Texas A&M traditions, Aggies that he had run into
in the service. and I don't recall that he singled
any out by name. I'm sure he must have mentioned
Earl Rudder, but I don't recall it. All right, then
commencement.
Commencement, we had a commencement speaker.
Don't remember who he was. Don't remember what he
said. It was held out there in... Kyle Field.
Gerald,
Gerald Natardis was our valedictorian and he gave
the valedictorian address. One of the most
inspiring talks I ever heard and it was printed in
the I believe it was printed in the yearbook. If
it's not in the yearbook, I know we all got a copy of
it. And it was very inspiring. And we walked across
the stage. We had already...
No, we had not yet gotten our commissions.
And we got our commissions the following day.
commencement was on the 30th, final review was on
the 30th, and we got our commissions on the 31st of
May in Guyon Hall. And... Every hand, every name
was called and every hand was shaken. It was. And
here is a picture of newly commissioned Second
Lieutenant Paul Lemming on the steps of Guyon Hall
with his mother on his left and his wife on his
right. I had been a second lieutenant for ten
minutes. And each lady had on a hat? All ladies wore
hats and gloves in those days. And look how thin
that young hurdler was in those days. Well, if you
ran as much as I did, you'd be thin. What did you
probably weigh then? When I graduated, I gained
four pounds from my freshman year to my senior
year. I weighed 176. Which in those days was pretty
big.
Yeah, I guess so. Never thought about it. As you are
getting ready then to leave this campus and go into
the real world, how well prepared did you think A&M
had made you?
I didn't think that there was any problem that I
could not tackle.
work it out, either by myself or with somebody
else's cooperation. And the problem-solving
skills, although we didn't call it that then, but
the cooperation and teamwork and leadership that
we had had passed down to us,
it was something else. Now, how many B's had you
made semester grades? Do you remember?
Six or seven. And nothing below a B. No. What
creates Aggie spirit? Why are Aggies so proud?
Like the saying goes, from the inside, you
can't explain it. From the outside, you can't
understand it. Are there some events that help to
create that contribute to that? No, it's the sum
total of the Aggie experience, at least as far as
I'm concerned. But in that Aggie experience, are
there some special,
like Yale practice and muster and silver taps and
bonfire and commencement? All of those things.
And I'm sure that all the folks you've interviewed
had probably as difficult a time as I did defining
it, let alone explaining it. But it's the sum total
of the four year experience that you had while you
were here. If you were hired today as a consultant
to the decision makers at A&M as to what they should
do in the future,
what to change or not to change, to add or not to take
away, what advice would you give them?
That's a difficult question to answer because of
the environment in which we as a university find
ourselves these days and the
have. I
would find it very hard to deal with some of the
students or the student situations.
I would say continue on with 2020. I think we've got
a good blueprint.
I have a few minor disagreements with some of them,
not enough to make any difference. What about
size, enrollment numbers?
I think if we get much larger than we are right now,
we'd be too unwieldy. I agree with you. How do you
select, then, the... That was the next problem
that I was going to address. I don't know how.
without studying the situation further. And I
regret very much that we have to deny certain
students who, in my day, would have been well
qualified to attend,
had they had the money to enroll. I don't know how
you go about making the cutoff point,
It becomes so unfair to those who don't make it who,
because of some quirk of either demographics or
maybe they're not the token minority in their high
school, or because of Hopwood, they're denied
admission.
And this thing can be self-consuming and
self-defeating. But I don't have an answer. If you
could make a major gift to A&M, somebody walks up to
you and hands you a check for a million dollars or
more, and there's only one condition, you must
pass it on to A&M, but you can determine what use
will be made of that major gift. What would you want
that gift to do?
What would be your favorite act? A&M thing to
support? I would use it to establish a law school.
Located geographically where? We've got plenty
of room on this campus. Oh, you'd put it in college
session. Between here and the Brazos River, we
have plenty of room. Now, having said that,
perhaps College Station, which is not exactly the
cultural center of the universe, might not be the
best location for it. From a demographics point of
view and from
a research point of view, research as far as legal
research is concerned. Of course, we could fill
that up over time if we ever got a law school. But at
least I would want to start it here.